# data-analytics-template

This repository will serve as a template to follow for all upcoming data analytics projects. It will serve both as a reference point as well as the standard to follow for projects in the future.

# Overview

A template file and folder structure for a data analysis project/paper done with Python/Jupyter/Github. Other components (e.g., other programming languages) can be added as needed.

# Pre-requisites

This is a template for a data analysis project using Python, Jupyter, Github.

# Template structure and content

The template comes with a folder structure and example files to illustrative the kinds of content you would place in the different folders. The following is a brief description of the contents. See the `readme` files in each folder for more details.

- All code goes into the `code` folder and subfolders. You can re-organize such that it makes most sense for your project. The folders contain files that do some data cleaning and analysis to illustrate the overall setup and workflow. See the readme files in those folders for details.

- All data goes into the `data` folder and subfolders.You can re-organize such that it makes most sense for your project.

- The `results` folder contains automatically/code generated output. This includes figures, tables, computed values and other outputs. All content in these folders should be automatically generated by code. Manually generated results should be avoided as much as possible.

- There are multiple special files in the repo.
  - `readme.md`: this file contains instructions or details about the folder it
    is located in. You are reading the project-level `README.md` file right now. There is a `readme` in almost every folder.

# Data Dictionary

| Variable | Description                    | Data Type |
| -------- | ------------------------------ | --------- |
| ID       | Unique identifier for each row | Integer   |
| age      | Age of individual              | Integer   |
| income   | Annual income in USD           | Float     |
| city     | City of residence              | String    |

# Naming conventions

We try to follow these naming conventions for folders and files:

- Somewhat descriptive and easy to understand names.
- Only lower-case letters (and numbers if needed). Words separated by a `-`.

For instance there is a folder called `analysis-code` with a file called `exploratory-analysis-v2.qmd` in it. We don't use `_` or blank spaces for separators. We also don't use CamelCase, only lower-case. Exceptions are made for standard file endings, for instance R scripts end in `.R` (instead of `.r`).

# Getting started

This is a Github template repository. The best way to get it and start using it is [by following these steps.](https://help.github.com/en/articles/creating-a-repository-from-a-template)

Once you got the repository, you can check out the examples by executing them in order. First run the processing code, which will produce the processed data. Those files pull in the generated results and display them.
